=head1 NAME

Extopus Implementation Plan

=head1 DESCRIPTION

With the initial version of SIAM available the basic elements for extopus implementation are in place.

=head2 Implementation Aproach

To ensure implementation consistency and quality, development follows a few simple rules:

=over

=item 1.

Select Task from Task List below. Discuss with PL.

=item 2.

Prepare Implementaiton Concept and Plan. Discuss with PL.

=item 3.

Document. Implement. Test. Send pull request to PL.

=back

=head1 BACKEND WORK PACKAGES

=head2 ep::Driver::SIAM

Load all data available to a specific user into the extopus backend cache L<ep::Cache>.
See L<SIAM> for details on using SIAM.

=head2 ep::Cache

See module skeleton for details L<ep::Cache>

=head2 ep::Proxy

Implement Mojo based HTTP proxy for accessing torrus htmls pages via extopus backend
adjust any internal urls as necessary.

=head1 FRONTEND WORK PACKAGES

=head2 Torrus IFrame integration

Create Iframe display for Torrus output.

=head2 Torrus Numerical Output

Extract numerical data from rrd via torrus.

=head2 RRD Widget

Navigatable Chart Widget/Backend/Api for Extopus. With Pdf export.

=head2 Tabular Data Display Widget

Tabular data display widget/backend/api with csv and copy paste support.

=head1 TORRUS WORK PACKAGES

=head2 Data Fetch

Add data export template to torrus

=head2 Configurable Charts

In connection with the RRD Widget provide configurability for
format, size, time of chart and graphv metadata.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2011 by OETIKER+PARTNER AG. All rights reserved.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

=head1 AUTHOR

S<Tobias Oetiker E<lt>tobi@oetiker.chE<gt>>,

=head1 HISTORY

 2011-04-07 to initial version

