=head1 Extopus Overview

by Tobias Oetiker, L<tobi@oetiker.ch>

Extopus is an aggregating front end for monitoring systems.

=head2 Data Model

=head3 Nodes

Extopus is built around a notion of nodes. Each node has a set of
properties associated with it, they fall into three categories:
mandatory (xm_*), optional (xo_*) and user defined. Extopus can
use common property values between nodes to build arbitrary tree
structures.

=over

=item xm_src

the source of this node. This is an internal connection to a Extopus plug-in instance
providing this information. The plug-in may provide additional information at run-time.

=item mx_id

a node id which can be used to retrieve additional information about this node via the source plug-in instance.
The id is only unique within the scope of the plug-in.

=item mx_expiry (epoch)

when can this node be purged

=item mx_name

some friendly name for the node

=item mo_country, mo_state, mo_town, mo_zip, mo_street, mo_building, mo_floor, mo_room, mo_rack, mo_shelf, mo_long, mo_lat

information about the physical location of the node

=item mo_vendor, mo_model, mo_serial, mo_slot, mo_port

information about the device this node is associated with

=item mo_user, mo_groups[]

who does this node belong to, to be used in determining access privileges

=back

Additional site specific information can be associated with the node for
use in plug-in.

As a node is selected, Extopus will ask the associated plug-in for further
information about how to display details on the node. The plug-in will then
either access the linked back end monitoring system to grab additional
information or it will pull the data from the Extopus node database.

=head3 Node Database

All nodes are stored in a no-sql database (mongodb) with the ability to
store arbitrary attributes for each node without requiring any schema changes.

The database can gets populated via the plug-ins integrating the different
back end systems. There are three ways of database population

=over

=item periodically

plug-ins are asked for re-populating the database by a cron-like facility.

=item push

external systems can push updates to the node database

=item login event

plug-ins poll data provider upon user login for appropriate nodes, this may
involve authenticating with the data provider to get access to appropriate
information.

The node database is no permanent data repository. Every node has an expiry
property which will cause its own removal from the database.

=back

=head3 Access Control

And authentication and authorization is governed by an authentication
plug-in. It governs which nodes are accessible to a user and within the nodes
which attributes are available. The access rules not only apply to the user,
but also to other plug-ins. If a plug-in was to draw node locations on a
google map, it would only get access to the nodes the user can access too.

=head2 User Interface

There are three main elements to the user interface:

=over

=item Navigation Tree

Using common attribute values between nodes, Extopus can build tree representations of the nodes, providing quick hierarchical access to the information.

=item Node Search

A google like full text search allows to find any node in the database quickly

=item Information Display

As a node gets selected, Extopus asks the associated plug-in instance for information to display. Extopus provides a range of different widgets for displaying information.

=back

=head2 Information Display Widgets

Depending on the nature of information on display, Extopus sports a range of different widgets for displaying the information to the user.

=head3 Iframe

At the most basic level, output from other systems can be integrated within iframes, either fed directly from an external URL or proxied via the Extopus server.

=head3 Tabular Data

Tabular data can be displayed in a sortable and exportable table widget

=head3 Live Charting

Numeric data can be presented in charting widgets

=head3 RRD Interactive

Since RRD is widely used for storing time-series monitoring data, Extopus
has special support producing interactive presentations of rrdtool charts
given appropriate support from the respective back end system.



