=head1 NAME

EP::Index - Extopus Documentation Index

=head1 ADMIN DOCUMENTAION

Extopus consists of two main components. A backend written in perl and a
frontend written in javascript. The frontend talks to the backend via web
requests. Mostly JSON-RPC but also some normal GET requests for graphcs and
other downloads.

All frontend configuration comes from the backend, so unless you are
about to add additional visualization modules to the frontend, all you need to
handle as an extopus admin is the backend configuration.

=over

=item L<EP::Cfg> - Configuration Syntax

Extopus configuration syntax.

=item L<EP::Inventory::SIAM> - SIAM Inventory Plugin

How to attach Extopus to L<SIAM>.

=item L<EP::Visualizer::TorrusChart> - Torrus Chart Visualizer

Show torrus charts in extopus.

=item L<EP::Visualizer::TorrusData> - Torrus Data Visualizer

Fetch data analysis from torrus and present as a table

=item L<EP::Visualizer::Properties> - Properties Visualizer

Show node properties

=back

=head1 TECH DOCUMENTATION

The Extopus backend is writting in perl, using the the Mojolicious
framework. Mojolicious comes with its own documentation. See
L<Mojolicious::Guides> for details.

=over

=item *

L<EP::MojoApp> - the mojo application starting point

=item * 

L<EP::Cache> - extopus data cache

=item *

L<EP::Config> - The Extopus File Parser

=item *

L<EP::Exception> - a simple exception class

=item *

L<EP::RpcService> - RPC services for ep

=item * 

L<EP::Inventory> - inventory managemer

=item *

L<EP::Inventory::base> - base inventory class

=item *

L<EP::Inventory::SIAM> - read data from a SIAM connector

=item * 

L<EP::Visualizer> - visualizer managemer

=item * 

L<EP::Visualizer::base> - visualizer base class

=item * 

L<EP::Visualizer::TorrusIframe> - provide access to appropriate torrus pages via a proxy

=item * 

L<EP::Visualizer::TorrusData> - pull numeric data associated with torrus data source

=item * 

L<EP::Visualizer::TorrusChart> - provide access to appropriate torrus pages via a proxy

=item * 

L<EP::Visualizer::Properties> - show the record as-is

=back

=cut

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or   
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the  
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2011 by OETIKER+PARTNER AG. All rights reserved.

=head1 AUTHOR

S<Tobias Oetiker E<lt>tobi@oetiker.chE<gt>>

=head1 HISTORY

 2011-06-20 to 1.0 first version

=cut




